# `.m3u8` file
  It is basically a text file containing all the links(location) of the parts of the video you are watching online. Online video platforms use it to:
  - Reduce load on server.
  - Prevent direct download of the video.
  - Efficient and fast streaming.

- ## what is `.m3u`

  m3u __(MP3 URL)__ is a computer file format for a multimedia playlist. One common use of the m3u file format is creating  single-entry playlist file pointing to a stream on the Internet.

- ## what is `.m3u8`

  The Unicode version of M3U is __M3U8__, which uses UTF-8-encoded characters. `.m3u8` files are the basis for the [HTTP Live Streaming](HLS.md) format

- ## File format

  An M3U8 file is a **plain text** file that species the locations of one or more media files.\
  \
  The M3U file can also include comments, prefaced by the "#" character. In extended M3U, "#" also introduces extended M3U directives.\
  Extensions:\
  | Directive | Description | Example |
  | --------- | ----------- | ------- |
  | #EXTM3U   | File header. Must be the first line of he file. | `#EXTM3U` |
  | #EXTINF   | Track information, including the runtime in seconds and the title | `#EXTINF:191,Artist Name - Track Title` |

- ## Internet media types

  The only Internet media type registered for M3U and M3U8 is `application/vnd.apple.mpegurl`, registered in 2009 and only referring to the playlist format as used in HLS applications.

  The current proposal for the HLS playlist format acknowledges two media types which it treats as equivalent: `application/vnd.apple.mpegurl` and `audio/mpegurl`. Likewise, these are the two types recommended for HLS use by Microsoft.

  For non-HLS applications, no media types were standardized or registered with the IANA, but a number of media types are nonetheless associated with the historical and ongoing use of the M3U and M3U8 formats for general playlists:

  - `application/mpegurl`
  - `application/x-mpegurl`
  - `audio/mpegurl`
  - `audio/x-mpegurl`
  These types, plus application/vnd.apple.mpegurl and application/vnd.apple.mpegurl.audio, are supported for HLS applications by (for example) Microsoft's Windows 10 and Internet Explorer 9,and LG's WebOS.

- ## Example file

```
#EXTM3U
#EXT-X-VERSION:3
#EXT-X-TARGETDURATION:15
#EXT-X-MEDIA-SEQUENCE:1
#EXTINF:13.764667,
mystream1.ts
#EXTINF:15.099422,
mystream2.ts
#EXTINF:2.502667,
mystream3.ts
#EXTINF:9.009600,
mystream4.ts
#EXTINF:10.260933,
mystream5.ts
#EXT-X-ENDLIST
```

### References:

- > [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/M3U)
- > [Quora](https://www.quora.com/How-do-I-open-m3u8-video-format-file)
